Add more detail to upgrading guide (#489)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/node-operators/how-to/network-upgrade-from-ops-perspective.md

# Upgrade procedure from the OPS perspective

## Assumptions

**NOTE**: Below instruction is prepared for Debian-like Linux operating systems. We also assume you are already running a validator node. The following assumption is, We are using systemd commands(`systemctl` and `journalctl`) to control binaries in our setup. If you are using something different, that article's commands may vary.

Before you start, you have to prepare and keep in mind a few things:

- `<VEGA-USER>`; the Linux user that runs vega, e.g., `vega`
- `<USER-HOME>`; path to the `<VEGA-USER>` home directory, e.g., `/home/vega`
- `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>`; the home path to the vega network, e.g., `/home/vega/vega_home`

> - `<DATA-NODE-HOME>`; the home path to the data-node, the home can be safely shared with vega core, e.g., `/home/vega/data_node_home`

Reviewer: updated

- `<TENDERMINT-HOME>`; the tendermint home path, e.g., `/home/vega/tendermint_home`
- `<VEGAVISOR-HOME>`; the vegavisor home path, e.g., `/home/vega/vegavisor_home`
- `<BACKUP-FOLDER>`; the folder where you store backups, e.g., `/home/vega/backups`
- `<VISOR-BIN>`; the path to the vega visor binary, e.g., `/home/vega/bin/visor`

> - `<VEGA-BIN>`; the path to the vega core binary, e.g., `/home/vega/bin/visor`

Reviewer: updated

> - `<VEGA-BIN>`; the path to the vega core binary, e.g., `/home/vega/bin/visor`

Reviewer: fixed later in the instruction

- `<CHAIN-ID>`; new chain id for network, it is required to pass as an argument for data-node, e.g., current chain id on mainnet is: `vega-mainnet-0009`

Placeholders for the PostgreSQL

- `<VEGA-DB-USER>` - a postgreSQL user you create and put in the data-node config
- `<VEGA-DB-NAME>` - a postgreSQL data-base name
- `<VEGA-DB-PASS>` - a password for your `<VEGA-DB-USER>`

We will refer to the above paths in the following article. The sample paths given above are just examples. We recommend setting your paths that align with the conventions adopted in your company.

# Upgrade steps

### 1. Download a new binaries

Download new binaries from [the GitHub release](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/releases) and unzip them, then you have to put them in the `<VEGA-BIN>` and the `<VISOR-BIN>`

The binaries you need: 

> - vega binary

Reviewer 2: Add info that you don't need a separate binary for data-node. We will use vega binary

Reviewer: fixed

- visor binary (optional for non-visor setup)

Example commands to download:

```bash
# Download archives
wget https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/releases/download/v0.68.0/vega-linux-amd64.zip
wget https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/releases/download/v0.68.0/visor-linux-amd64.zip

# Unzip downloaded archives
unzip vega-linux-amd64.zip
unzip visor-linux-amd64.zip

> mv vega <VEGA-BIN>

Reviewer: it does but for vega i have updated instruction later in the instruction

mv visor <VISOR-BIN>
``` 

## 2. Stop the network

> At this point, validators choose the checkpoint, which will be loaded into the network during the next restart, and stop the network as soon as everyone agrees on the selected checkpoint. The reason to quickly stop the network is to avoid producing more checkpoints and missing transactions after restart(the transactions executed between selected checkpoint is produced, and the network is stopped). Network should be stopped by all the validators at the same time.

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth adding the info that we will relax this requirement for the Validators Testnet upgrade?

Reviewer: Added

- `<VEGA-USER>`; the Linux user that runs vega, e.g., `vega`
- `<USER-HOME>`; path to the `<VEGA-USER>` home directory, e.g., `/home/vega`
- `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>`; the home path to the vega network, e.g., `/home/vega/vega_home`
- `<DATA-NODE-HOME>`; the home path to the data-node, the home can be safely shared with vega core, e.g., `/home/vega/data_node_home`
- `<TENDERMINT-HOME>`; the tendermint home path, e.g., `/home/vega/tendermint_home`
- `<VEGAVISOR-HOME>`; the vegavisor home path, e.g., `/home/vega/vegavisor_home`
- `<BACKUP-FOLDER>`; the folder where you store backups, e.g., `/home/vega/backups`
- `<VISOR-BIN>`; the path to the vega visor binary, e.g., `/home/vega/bin/visor`
- `<VEGA-BIN>`; the path to the vega core binary, e.g., `/home/vega/bin/visor`
- `<CHAIN-ID>`; new chain id for network, it is required to pass as an argument for data-node, e.g., current chain id on mainnet is: `vega-mainnet-0009`

We will refer to the above paths in the following article. The sample paths given above are just examples. We recommend setting your paths that align with the conventions adopted in your company.

# Upgrade steps

## 1. Stop the network

> At this point, validators choose the checkpoint, which will be loaded into the network during the next restart, and stop the network as soon as everyone agrees on the selected checkpoint. The reason to quickly stop the network is to avoid producing more checkpoints and missing transactions after restart(the transactions executed between selected checkpoint is produced, and the network is stopped)

Author: ```suggestion
At this point, validators need to choose and agree on the checkpoint that will be loaded into the network during the next restart, and stop the network as soon as everyone agrees on the selected checkpoint. The reason to quickly stop the network is to avoid producing more checkpoints and missing transactions after restart (the transactions executed between when the selected checkpoint is produced, and the network is stopped).
```

1. Stop the `vega` node
2. Stop the `tendermint` node
3. Stop the `data-node` if running
4. Make sure `vega` and `tendermint` have been stopped.

**NOTE**: The new version of vega does not need to run tendermint as a separate service. Vega incorporates the tendermint process into the vega command at the moment.

If you run the network with the systemd service you may want to call the following commands to stop the network:

```bash
systemctl stop vega;
systemctl stop tendermint;
systemctl stop data-node;
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we add the check its all stopped?

Reviewer: Done
